The Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 207: Make it with Aunt
Lydia's Heavy Rug Yarn, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Star Book No. 207: Make it with Aunt Lydia's Heavy Rug Yarn

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: June 26, 2020 [EBook #62487]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 207: MAKE IT ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









STAR BOOK NO. 207
                                                                     35¢




                              MAKE IT WITH
                              Aunt Lydia’s
                             HEAVY RUG YARN
                          knit•crochet•fringe
                       FLOWERS•PILLOWS•TOYS•RUGS


    [Illustration: american thread
    HIGH RIDGE PARK, STAMFORD, CONN. 06905]

                                                       PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                                Pillows


                           EMBROIDERED PILLOW

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    6—70 yd. skeins Moss
    1—70 yd. skein Cerise and
  “STAR” SIX STRAND MERCERIZED EMBROIDERY COTTON
    3 skeins Yellow #1006
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  ½ yd. Lining
  4—1 inch Button molds
  Shredded Foam Rubber
  Steel Crochet Hook Size No. 7
  GAUGE For Size H Hook: 3 sts = 1 inch

With Moss and size H hook ch 45, s c in 2nd st from hook, * 1 d c in
next st, 1 s c in next st, repeat from * across ch ending with 1 d c in
last ch, ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd ROW: S c in d c, d c in next s c,
repeat from beg across row, ch 1, turn. Repeat 2nd row for pattern until
section measures 15 inches from beg, cut yarn. Work a 2nd section in
same manner.

LINING: Cut 2 sections allowing about ½ inch on all edges for seams.
Seam 3 sides, fill with shredded foam rubber. Sew opening closed.

FINISHING: Weave 3 sides of pillow tog, insert lining in pillow and sew
opening closed. With double strand of Cerise work a ch to fit all around
pillow. Tack ch in place having wrong side of ch to right side.

FLOWERS: With Yellow “STAR” SIX STRAND EMBROIDERY COTTON and No. 7 hook
ch 4, join to form a ring, work 8 s c in ring, do not join or turn this
or following rounds. Place a marker at beg of each round. 2nd ROUND: 2 s
c in each sc. 3rd ROUND: 1 s c in 1st sc, 2 s c in next sc, * 1 s c in
next s c, 2 s c in next s c, repeat from * all around. NEXT 4 ROUNDS:
Working in back loop of sts 1 s c in each s c, cut thread at end of last
round leaving a length long enough to draw sts tog. Place over a 1 inch
buttonmold, fasten securely. With Cerise and a darning needle, work into
the 1st round of free loops, insert needle down in any loop (leave a 1
inch length at beg), * bring needle up in next loop, leaving a 2 inch
length, insert needle down in next loop, repeat from * until all free
loops are used, cut yarn leaving a 1 inch length. Work 2 more flowers in
same manner. Work a 4th flower in same manner but have petal loops about
2½ inches long. Attach flowers in corner as illustrated.


                              ZEBRA PILLOW

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    2—70 yd. skeins each Black and White
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 10 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  Black Lining Material 16½ inches x 32 inches
  Shredded Foam Rubber or Cotton for filling
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches
  Pillow is approximately 15½ inch square.

With White cast on 52 sts. Work in stockinette st (K 1 row, P 1 row).
Following chart on page 3 repeat twice then bind off.

FINISHING: Block to measurements. Fold lining material in half. Sew 2
side seams allowing ½ inch on each side for seam. Turn inside out and
fill with shredded foam rubber or Cotton, sew top seam. Sew knitted
section on front of pillow with “STAR” MERCERIZED SEWING THREAD.

TASSELS: (Make 4 of each color). Wind yarn 20 times over a 5 inch
cardboard, tie one end, cut other end. Then tie again 1 inch from last
tying. Attach one of each color in each corner. Trim tassels evenly.

    [Illustration: INSTRUCTIONS FOR KNITTED TASSEL PILLOW ON PAGE 24]

    [Illustration: {PATTERN}]




                            So Easy Flowers


    [Illustration: {FLORAL DECORATION}]


                                 PEONY

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein Pink
    1—70 yd. skein Lt. Rose
    1—70 yd. skein Fern Green
    (2 skeins any flower colors will make approximately 6 flowers).
  Florist Wire (medium)
  Glue

1. Open and cut 1 end of darker shade, cut skein into 5½ inch lengths.

2. Open and cut 1 end of lighter shade, cut skein into 3½ inch lengths.

3. Take 1 section of darker shade for bottom of flower. Place 2 sections
of lighter shade in center of darker shade. Fold wire in half. Place in
center of cut sections and twist wire together tightly.

4. Untwist each strand of yarn to fluff flower. (Shake and trim).

5. Glue 1 end of Fern Green underneath flower and twist and wrap around
wire to form stem. Glue end.


                                CATTAILS

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein Brown
    1—70 yd. skein Fern Green
  Florist Wire (medium)

1. Open and cut Brown skein in half.

2. Set aside 2 strands cut into 8 inch lengths.

3. Cut remainder of skein into 1½ inch sections. (Having about 8 to 10
sections for each cattail).

4. Take one 8 inch length, fold wire in half and wind length about 1
inch on each side of fold. Tie ends together 1 inch from top.

5. Take one section of 1½ inch strands, place between wires, twist wire
tightly together. Repeat step 5 until cattail is length desired.
(Approximately 5½ to 6 inches). Trim.

6. Cover wire for stem same as step 5 of Peony on this page.

    [Illustration: {PEONIES AND CATTAILS}]




                          The Prettiest Shell


                           Sizes: 32, 34, 36
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    5 (6, 6) 70 yd. skeins Bongo
    3 (3, 4) 70 yd. skeins Yellow
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  1 Set Double Pointed Needles No. 8
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for size 32. Changes for sizes 34 and 36 are given
in parentheses.

BACK: With Bongo cast on 67 (71, 75) sts.

START PATTERN: 1st ROW: With Bongo P across row. 2nd ROW: P 1, * K 1, P
3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with P 1. 3rd ROW: K 1, *
P 1, K 3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with K 1. 4th ROW:
Repeat 2nd row, drop Bongo. 5th ROW: With Yellow P 1, * yarn to front,
sl 1 as if to P, P 3, repeat from * across row ending last repeat with P
1. 6th ROW: K 3, * P 1, K 3, repeat from * across row. 7th ROW: P 3, * K
1, P 3, repeat from * across row. 8th ROW: Repeat 6th row, drop Yellow.
Repeat from 1st to 8th row for pattern until back measures 14 inches
from beg ending with 8th pattern row. NEXT ROW: SHAPE ARMHOLES: Keeping
pattern even and working pattern in Bongo only for remainder of back,
bind off 4 sts (all sizes) at beg of next 2 rows. Then dec 1 st at beg
and end of every other row 4 times. Work even in pattern until armholes
measure 7 (7½, 7½) inches ending on right side of work. NEXT ROW: NECK
SHAPING: Work across 12 (14, 16) sts, place next 27 (27, 27) sts on st
holder for neck, attach another skein of yarn, work across remaining 12
(14, 16) sts. NEXT 2 ROWS: SHAPE SHOULDERS: Working both sides at same
time bind off 5 (6, 7) sts at armhole edge and dec 1 st on each side of
neck edge in each row. NEXT 2 ROWS: Bind off 5 (6, 7) sts at armhole
edge in each row.

FRONT: Work same as back until armholes measure 5½ (6, 6) inches ending
on right side of work. NEXT ROW: SHAPE NECK: Work across 16 (18, 20)
sts, place next 19 (19, 19) sts on st holder, attach another skein of
yarn, work across remaining sts. NEXT 6 ROWS: Working both sides at same
time work in pattern dec 1 st on each side of neck edge in each row (all
sizes). Work even until armholes measure same as back. Shape shoulders
same as back.

FINISHING: Block each section slightly. Weave shoulder and side seams.

NECK BAND: With Bongo and dpn pick up and K 74 (78, 78) sts including
sts from st holder. P each row for 5 rows, bind off. Fold under in a
roll and tack in position to wrong side.

ARMHOLE BANDS: With Bongo and dpn pick up and K 54 (58, 58) sts around
armhole. P 3 rows, bind off. Finish same as neck band.

    [Illustration: {SHELL}]




                    Put a little Color in your Patio


                       RUG, PLACE MATS & COASTERS

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    2—70 yd. skeins Buttercup
    1—70 yd. skein each Watermelon, Bongo, Orange, Cerise and Black will
          make 4 Place Mats and 4 Coasters
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 1 motif measures 4 inches in diameter.


                               PLACE MAT

MOTIF: With Buttercup ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3, holding last loop
of each d c on hook, 2 d c in ring, y o and pull through all loops, * ch
3, cluster st in ring (cluster st: holding last loop of each d c on
hook, 3 d c in ring, y o and pull through all loops), repeat from * 4
times, ch 3, join, cut yarn. 2nd ROUND: Attach Cerise in any ch 3 loop,
s c, 4 d c, s c in same loop (scallop), * s c, 4 d c, s c in next loop,
repeat from * all around, join, cut yarn. Work a 2nd motif in same
manner joining to 1st motif in last round as follows: attach Cerise in
any ch 3 loop, s c, 2 d c in same loop, drop loop from hook, insert hook
in center of scallop of 1st motif, pick up loop, pull through space, 2 d
c, s c in same space of 2nd motif, s c, 2 d c in next loop, join in
center of next scallop of 1st motif in same manner, 2 d c, s c in same
space of 2nd motif, complete round same as 1st motif, join, cut yarn.
Join 3rd motif to 2nd and 1st motifs in same manner having 2nd joining
of 3rd motif in same space of 1st and 2nd motif joining, complete 3rd
motif. Join 3 more motifs same as last motif. Join 7th motif to previous
and 1st motifs in same manner. See small chart for joining on page 12.

EDGE: Attach Black in any joining of 2 motifs, s c, ch 1, s c in same
space, ** ch 2, s c in space between next 2 s c, * ch 2, s c, ch 1, s c
in center of next scallop, ch 2, s c in space between next 2 s c, repeat
from * once, ch 2, s c, ch 1, s c in next joining, repeat from ** all
around, join, cut yarn.

Work 3 more place mats working 2nd round in Bongo, Watermelon and
Orange.


                                COASTERS

Work one motif in same colors as place mat, working Black edge all
around each motif.


                                  RUG

  2—70 yd. skeins each Watermelon, Bongo, Pink, Cerise and Old Rose
  3—70 yd. skeins Orange
  4—70 yd. skeins Black
  8—70 yd. skeins Buttercup and
  “STAR” MERCERIZED SEWING THREAD, 1 spool

Work 19 groups same as place mats having 3 of Old Rose, 4 of Orange, 3
of Cerise, 3 of Bongo, 3 of Pink, and 3 of Watermelon. Arrange motifs
according to chart on page 12. Sew groups tog in back loop of sts.

    [Illustration: {RUG, PLACE MATS, COASTERS}]




                          More Tissue Toppers


                          CLOWN TISSUE TOPPER

    [Illustration: {DECORATIVE RINGMASTER}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each White, Bongo and National Blue
  Scraps of Red and Black felt
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 3 s c = 1 inch

With White work 1st 8 rounds same as Rose tissue topper on page 24. NEXT
14 ROUNDS: Working in both loops work 1 s c in each s c, cut yarn at end
of last round.

RUFFLE: With right side of work toward you, working in front loop of sts
only, attach Bongo in any s c, * ch 4, sl st in next s c, repeat from *
all around, join, cut yarn. NEXT ROUND: Attach National Blue in free
loop of same s c row, work 2 s c in each st, do not join. NEXT ROUND:
Working through both loops of sts, work 1 s c in each s c, join, cut
yarn.

HAT: With Bongo ch 30, join in 1st st of ch being careful not to twist
ch. 1st ROUND: 1 s c in each st, do not join this or following rounds.
Place a marker at beg of each round. 2nd ROUND: Dec in next 2 sts (to
dec: keeping loops on hook pull up a loop in next 2 sts, y o and work
off all loops at one time), 1 s c in each of next 3 s c, repeat from beg
all around. 3rd ROUND: 1 s c in each st. 4th ROUND: Dec 6 sts evenly
spaced, do not work dec directly over previous dec. Repeat 3rd and 4th
rounds until 6 sts remain. NEXT ROUND: Work 1 s c in each st, join, cut
yarn leaving a length. Thread yarn into blunt needle, draw sts tog at
top, fasten securely.

RUFFLE: Work same as ruffle for topper but work ch 3 loops.

POMPON: Wind National Blue 80 times over a 1 inch cardboard. Tie one
end, cut other end. Trim into shape. Attach to top of hat.

FINISHING: Sew hat to top of tissue topper. Cut eyes, nose, mouth and
lines as illustrated with felt. Glue in position.

    [Illustration: INSTRUCTIONS FOR ROSE TOPPER ON PAGE 24]

    [Illustration: _American Thread Co._
    Aunt Lydia’s
    FAST COLOR • 70 YARDS
    HEAVY RUG YARN]




                             Peachy Beachie


                             Size: 10 to 16
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    11—70 yd. skeins White
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 10½ OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT
          IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch
  NOTE: Width across back and front of dress at underarm is 21 inches.

BACK: Cast on 63 sts. 1st ROW: P across. 2nd ROW: K 2, * y o, K 2 tog
through back, P 1, K 3, P 1, K 2 tog from front, y o, P 1, repeat from *
4 times, y o, K 2 tog through back, P 1, K 3, P 1, K 2 tog from front, y
o, K 2. 3rd ROW: P 4, * K 1, P 3, K 1, P 5, repeat from * 4 times ending
K 1, P 3, K 1, P 4. 4th ROW: Repeat 2nd row. 5th ROW: Repeat 3rd row.
6th ROW: Repeat 2nd row. 7th ROW: Repeat 3rd row. 8th ROW: K 2, * y o, K
2 tog through back, P 1, K 1, let next st drop 5 rows, pick up and K
dropped st working over all dropped rows, K 1, P 1, K 2 tog from front,
y o, P 1, repeat from * 4 times, y o, K 2 tog through back, P 1, K 1,
let next st drop 5 rows, pick up and K dropped st working over all
dropped rows, K 1, P 1, K 2 tog from front, y o, K 2. Repeat from 1st to
8th row for pattern until there are 13 patterns. Place markers for
underarms, then work 4 more patterns. Bind off.

FRONT: Work same as back until there are 15 patterns.

NEXT ROW: SHAPE NECKLINE: Work across 19 sts in pattern, bind off 25 sts
for neck, work across remaining sts. NEXT ROW: Work across 19 sts,
attach another skein of yarn, work across remaining sts. Working both
sides at same time continue in established pattern for 2 complete
patterns. Bind off.

FINISHING: Steam each section slightly. Sew side and shoulder seams.

NECK AND ARMHOLE EDGES: With crochet hook, right side facing, attach
yarn at left shoulder, working into every other row on side of neck, and
every other st on front and back of neck, sl 1, ch 1 all around, join,
cut yarn. Work in same manner around armholes.

LOWER EDGE: Attach yarn at side seam, with crochet hook, working into
each st sl 1, ch 1 all around, join, cut yarn.

    [Illustration: CHART FOR RUG ILLUSTRATED ON PAGE 9]

     6   7
   5   1   2
     4   3

   PLACE MAT

                 OLD ROSE       ORANGE        CERISE
           CERISE         BONGO         PINK        OLD ROSE
     PINK         ORANGE      WATERMELON       BONGO      WATERMELON
          OLD ROSE        BONGO        CERISE        ORANGE
                  ORANGE      WATERMELON       PINK

                             CHART FOR RUG

    [Illustration: {BEACHIE}]


                            RUG & SEAT COVER

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    11—70 yd. skeins Antique
    1—70 yd. skein each Bongo, Orange and Buttercup
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE:
      3 patterns = 2 inches;
      3 s c = 1 inch


                          RUG (22 x 28 inches)

With Antique ch 71, s c in 2nd st from hook, ch 1, keeping loops on
hook, pull up a loop in same st of ch, and in each of next 2 sts of ch,
y o and work off 2 loops, y o and work off remaining 3 loops, * ch 1,
keeping loops on hook, pull up a loop in last st worked in and next 2
sts of ch, y o and work off 2 loops, y o and work off remaining 3 loops,
repeat from * 32 times, ch 1, s c in last st, ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd
ROW: S c in s c, * ch 1, keeping loops on hook, pull up a loop in last
st worked in and in each of next 2 sts, y o and work off 2 loops, y o
and work off remaining 3 loops (pattern), repeat from * 33 times, ch 1,
skip 1 st, s c in last st. Repeat 2nd row 29 times.

START BORDER: Working around entire rug work 3 s c in each corner st, 68
s c across each long side and 47 s c across each short side. Do not join
or turn this or following rounds. Place a marker at beg of each round.
NEXT ROUND: Working in s c work 1 s c in each st and 2 s c on each side
of each corner st and 3 s c in each corner st. NEXT 6 ROUNDS: Work 1 s c
in each s c and 3 s c in each corner st of each round. NEXT ROUND:
Working in back loop of sts sl st in each st, cut yarn.

FLOWERS: Work 3 of each color. 1st ROUND: Ch 4, join to form a ring, *
ch 2, 3 d c, ch 2, s c in ring, repeat from * 3 times. 2nd ROUND: Ch 5,
sl st in next s c, repeat from beg all around. 3rd ROUND: S c in next ch
5 loop, ch 2, 5 d c in same loop, ch 2, s c in same loop, repeat from
beg all around, join, cut yarn.

FINISHING: Block rug. Arrange flowers as illustrated and sew to rug.


                               SEAT COVER

With Antique ch 21, 1 s c in 2nd st from hook and in each remaining st
of ch, turn. 2nd ROW: Ch 3 (counts as 1 d c), 2 s c in 1st st, work 9
patterns, ch 1, 2 s c, 1 d c in last st, turn. Repeat 2nd row always
having 2 more patterns in each row until there are 23 patterns in row,
ch 1 to turn last row. NEXT 13 ROWS: Repeat 2nd row of rug. NEXT ROW
(Dec Row): Skip 1st 2 sts, s c in next st, work 21 patterns, ch 1, skip
1 st, keeping loops on hook, pull up a loop in next st, skip 1 st, pull
up loop in next st, y o and work off all loops at one time (s c dec), ch
1, turn. NEXT 2 ROWS: Work even in pattern. Repeat last 3 rows once (19
patterns). NEXT 5 ROWS: Repeat dec rows having 2 patterns less in each
row (9 patterns in last row), cut yarn.

BORDER: Attach yarn on side of 1st row at beg, working in s c work 47 s
c on side of cover, 20 s c across straight edge and 47 s c on opposite
side of cover ending at other end of starting ch, ch 1, turn. 2nd ROW:
Work in s c throughout dec 1 st at beg and end of row. 3rd ROW: Dec 1 st
at beg and end of row and dec 10 more sts evenly spaced. 4th ROW: Repeat
2nd row. 5th ROW: 1 s c in each s c. 6th ROW: (BEADING): S c in 1st s c,
ch 1, skip next s c, s c in next s c, * ch 2, skip 2 s c, s c in next s
c, repeat from * across row ending to correspond, cut yarn.

TIE: Crochet a ch 48 inches long. Lace through beading.

FINISHING: Arrange flowers and sew to top of cover as illustrated.

    [Illustration: {RUG AND SEAT COVER}]




                               Coveralls


                             CURLER CARRIER

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    2—70 yd. skeins White
    1—70 yd. skein each Yellow, Peacock, Cerise and Moss
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 7 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch

With White cast on 37 sts. * 1st ROW: K across row. 2nd ROW: P across
row. 3rd ROW: K across row, drop White. 4th ROW: Attach Yellow and K
across 30 sts, turn. (NOTE: The hole formed in turning will be used as
beading.) 5th ROW: P across, cut Yellow. 6th ROW: Pick up White and K
across 37 sts. Repeat from 1st to 6th row 3 times, working next color
stripe Peacock, next color stripe Cerise, and next color stripe Moss *.
Repeat between *’s 5 times, Bind off. Sew ends tog.

BOTTOM: With White cast on 9 sts and work in garter st inc 1 st in last
st of each row 16 times. Work even for 16 rows. Dec. 1 st at end of each
row 16 times, bind off. Sew in position.

TIE: Cut each color 50 inches long. Tie 1 inch from end and twist, tie 1
inch from other end. Lace through beading.


                              SPRAY COVER

  1—70 yd. skein each White, Yellow, Peacock, Cerise and Moss
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 7 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch

With White cast on 25 sts. Work in pattern same as topper below having
11 color stripes, bind off. Sew two ends tog.

BOTTOM: With White cast on 4 sts. NEXT 6 ROWS: Work in garter st (K each
row), inc 1 st in last st of each row. NEXT 6 ROWS: Work even. NEXT 6
ROWS: Dec 1 st at end of each row. Bind off. Sew long edges tog. Sew
bottom in position.

TOP: With White cast on 44 sts, work in garter st for 13 rows. NEXT ROW:
K 2 tog across row. NEXT ROW: K across row. NEXT ROW: K 1, * K 2 tog, K
1, repeat from * across row. Repeat last 2 rows once. Bind off leaving a
length for sewing. Thread length into blunt needle and draw sts tog,
fasten securely. Sew side seam.

POMPON: Wind all colors 30 times over 2½ inch cardboard, tie one end,
cut other end. Trim into shape. Attach to top.


                             TISSUE TOPPER

  1—70 yd. skein each White, Yellow, Peacock, Cerise and Moss
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 7 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch

With White cast on 15 sts. * 1st ROW: K across row. 2nd ROW: P across
row. 3rd ROW: K across row, drop White. 4th ROW: Attach Yellow, K across
row. 5th ROW: P across row, cut Yellow. 6th ROW: Pick up White, K across
row. Repeat from 1st to 6th row 3 times working next color stripe
Peacock, next color stripe Cerise and next color stripe Moss. * Repeat
between *’s 3 times, bind off.

    [Illustration: {COVERALLS}]

BRIM: With White pick up 72 sts along 1 long edge and work in garter st
(K each row) for 5 rows, bind off. Sew side edges tog.

TOP: With White cast on 7 sts, work in garter st inc 1 st in last st of
each row until there are 17 sts on needle. Work 8 rows even. Then dec 1
st at end of each row until there are 7 sts, bind off. Sew top in
position.

POMPON: Wind all colors 45 times over 2 inch cardboard. Tie one end, cut
other end and trim into shape. Attach to top of topper.




                               Mini Doll


  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    3—70 yd. skeins each Natural and Cork
    1—70 yd. skein each Orange and Cerise
  Cotton
  Scraps of Pink, Red and Black felt
  12 Medium Wires 36 inches long
  2 Crystal Buttons for eyes
  Glue
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H

BODY: Open 3 skeins of Natural. Place skeins on top of each other. Tie
in center, fold in half, tie 4½ inches below for head. Stuff body and
head sections with cotton and tie bottom of body section.

ARMS: Open and cut 1 skein of Cork at one end, then cut into 3 inch
lengths. Take 2 wires, fold in half, * take half of one 3 inch group,
place in center of wire at fold, twist wire, then take other half of
same group, place between wires and twist, repeat from * until arm is 13
inches long. Twist end of wire and attach in place. Work other arm in
same manner.

LEGS: Cut 2 skeins of Cork into 4 inch lengths. Take 4 wires, twist tog
at one end, place half of one 4 inch length group at joining of wire,
and complete same as arms until leg is 22 inches long. Twist end of wire
and attach in place. Work other leg in same manner.

See diagrams on page 34.

HANDS: Cut Pink felt according to diagram. Sew 2 sections tog, fill with
cotton, glue Red felt in place for fingernails.

SHOES: Cut Black felt from diagram, overcast tog, fill with cotton.

EYES, MOUTH, NOSE AND LASHES: Cut sections as illustrated and glue in
position.

ASSEMBLING: Attach hands to arms, and shoes to legs.

HAIR: With Orange work hair in same manner as Pajama or Toaster Cover on
page 31.


                                 DRESS

With Cerise ch 72, join taking care not to twist ch, * ch 4, skip 2 sts
of ch, sl st in next ch, repeat from * all around ending ch 2, s d c in
joining; this brings yarn in position for next round (s d c: y o, insert
in st, pull through, y o and pull through all loops at one time). 2nd
ROUND: Turn, sl st in loop, * ch 4, sl st in next loop, repeat from *
all around ending ch 2, s d c in 1st sl st. Repeat 2nd round 19 times.
22nd ROW: Divide for front and back in this row. Work across 9 loops for
FRONT, ch 2, s d c in next loop, ch 4, turn. NEXT ROW: Work across 9
loops, ch 2, s d c in next loop, ch 4, turn. Repeat last row (having 1
less loop in each row) until 4 loops remain, cut yarn.

BACK: Skip 1 loop for underarm, attach yarn and work across 9 loops, ch
2, s d c in next loop. Complete same as front until 4 loops remain, do
not cut yarn.

FINISHING: Work 1 s c over each loop around armhole, work 3 s c over
each loop at neck, work 1 s c over each loop of other armhole, work 3 s
c over remaining loops of neck, join, cut yarn. Place mini over doll,
tack sts tog at shoulders.

    [Illustration: {DOLL}]




                               Here Puss


    [Illustration: {CAT}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    3—70 yd. skeins White
  2 yds. ¾ inch Pink Ribbon
  Scraps Pink, Red and Black felt

Open skein, cut 1 end. Set aside 2 lengths for tying and 5 lengths for
tail.

BODY: Cut remainder of skein into 7 equal sections. Place each section
over the other. Take 1 tying strand, fold in half and tie firmly in
center, turn pompon and tie again. Shake pompon. Open 2nd skein, cut 1
end, then cut into 7 equal parts, and complete same as 1st pompon. Tie 2
pompons tog.

HEAD: Open 3rd skein, cut 1 end. Set aside 2 lengths for tying. Cut
remainder of skein into 5 inch sections. Place each section over the
other and complete same as large pompon leaving tying ends for leash.
Tie head and body pompons tog. Cut and trim into shape. Brush slightly
for fuzzy effect.

FACE: Using diagrams on page 35 cut eyes, whiskers and mouth from black
felt. Slash mouth, eyelashes and whiskers along indicated lines. Cut
tongue and nose from red felt. Cut ears from pink felt. Pleat ears along
straight edge. Glue features in place. Tie ribbon around neck. Fold tail
lengths in half and tie in place. Finish with ribbon bow. Tie leash ends
in bow.




                           Cynthia Centipede


    [Illustration: {CENTIPEDE}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    2—70 yd. skeins White
    1—70 yd. skein Red
  2¼ inch Styrofoam ball
  3 Colored Pipe Cleaners
  ⅛ yd. Nylon Net
  Scraps of Black and Red felt
  Glue

Open 1 skein of White. Tie at center. Cut each end. Fold over styrofoam
ball, and tie below ball. * Take 12 strands, divide in thirds and braid.
Repeat from * until all strands are braided. Cut away any extra strands
and trim ends. Open and cut each end of 2nd skein. White tie in center.
Repeat from 1st * until all strands are used, trim ends. Place under
braided section below the head and attach.

FACE: Cut features as illustrated and glue in position. Form glasses
with 1 pipe cleaner and sew in place. Tie nylon net around neck. Cut 32
strands of Red 3 inches long. Fold one pipe cleaner in half. Place 4
strands between pipe cleaner at fold, twist pipe cleaner tightly once, *
take 4 more strands, place between pipe cleaner, and twist pipe cleaner
tightly once again, repeat from * until all strands are used. Work 2nd
pipe cleaner in same manner. Attach to top of head as illustrated.




                            Dish Cloth Totes


    [Illustration: WEAVING DETAIL ON PAGE 27]


                             BLOCK TOTE BAG

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each Cerise, Chartreuse, Lilac and National Blue and
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” Button and Carpet Thread
    1 Spool matching color
  2 Dish Cloths
  ½ yd. Lining Material
  ½ yd. Buckram
  Large Blunt Needle

Cut strands of yarn about 22 inches long. Start weaving at lower edge of
short side of dish cloth. Thread Cerise into blunt needle allowing a 2
inch length at each end for fringe. 1st ROW: Insert needle down 1st mesh
and up next mesh of 1st row, * skip next 4 meshes, insert needle down
next mesh, skip next 4 meshes, insert needle up next mesh, repeat from *
across row ending with skip next 4 meshes, insert needle down next mesh
and up next mesh. 2nd and 3rd ROWS: Repeat 1st row working in next 2
rows of meshes. 4th, 5th and 6th ROWS: With Chartreuse insert needle
down 2nd mesh, * skip next 4 meshes, insert needle up next mesh, skip
next 4 meshes, insert needle down next mesh, repeat from * across row
ending with skip next 4 meshes, insert needle up next mesh. Repeat last
6 rows for pattern working in colors as follows: Lilac, Chartreuse,
National Blue, and Chartreuse. Repeat from beg for color scheme until
bag is completed. Cut 3 inch strands of yarn for lower edge fringe.
Following color scheme tack 3 strands of each color in each stripe
across (tack on wrong side bringing fringe to right side). Work another
section in same manner. Trim fringe evenly.

LINING and HANDLES: Work same as Ripple Tote Bag.


                            RIPPLE TOTE BAG

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each Bongo, Lilac, Yellow and Chartreuse and
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” Button and Carpet Thread
    1 Spool matching color
  2 Dish Cloths
  ½ yd. Lining Material
  ½ yd. Buckram
  Large Blunt Needle

Cut strands of yarn about 24 inches long. Always weave under two bars of
dish cloth throughout. Thread Bongo into blunt needle and start weaving
at lower edge of short side of dish cloth. 1st ROW: Allow a 2 inch
length at each end for fringe, insert needle down 1st mesh of 1st row,
weave under next two bars, * skip next 4 meshes, weave under next two
bars of 5th row above, skip next 4 meshes, weave under next 2 bars of
starting row, repeat from * across row. Start all succeeding rows one
row above each previous row, and work all rows in same manner throughout
working 2 more rows in Bongo, 3 rows in Lilac, 3 rows in Yellow, 3 rows
in Bongo, 3 rows in Lilac, 3 rows in Chartreuse. Repeat color scheme
from beg until bag is completed. Cut 3 inch strands of yarn for lower
edge fringe. Following color scheme tack 3 strands of each color in
position across (tack on wrong side bringing fringe to right side). Work
another section in same manner. Trim fringe evenly.

LINING: Cut 2 sections of buckram ½ inch less than bag. Sew buckram to
wrong side of bag. Weave 3 sides of bag tog with “AUNT LYDIA’S” Button
and Carpet Thread leaving one short side open. Cut lining allowing for
seams. Fold lining in half, sew side seams. Insert in bag, fold hem
under at top of bag, tack lining in position.

                                             _Continuation from page 25_

HANDLES: Cut 2 yd. lengths of each color, twist tightly, fold in half
and let twist itself. Knot at each end leaving 2 inches free for fringe.
Sew in position.




                         Knitted Tassel Pillow


                         _illustrated on page 3_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    3—70 yd. skeins Antique
    1—70 yd. skein each Cerise and Lilac
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size J
  Pillow 14 x 16 inches
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches

With Antique cast on 59 sts. 1st ROW: * P 9, K 1, repeat from * across
row ending with P 9. 2nd ROW: * K 9, P 1, repeat from * across row
ending with K 9. 3rd ROW: K 1, * P 7, K 3, repeat from * across row
ending with P 7, K 1. 4th ROW: P 1, * K 7, P 3, repeat from * across row
ending with K 7, P 1. 5th ROW: K 2, * P 5, K 5, repeat from * across row
ending with P 5, K 2. 6th ROW: P 2, * K 5, P 5, repeat from * across row
ending with K 5, P 2. 7th ROW: K 3, * P 3, K 7, repeat from * across row
ending with P 3, K 3. 8th ROW: P 3, * K 3, P 7, repeat from * across row
ending with K 3, P 3. 9th ROW: K 4, * P 1, K 9, repeat from * across row
ending with P 1, K 4. 10th ROW: P 4,* K 1, P 9, repeat from * across row
ending with K 1, P 4. Repeat from 1st to 10th row 6 times, bind off.

EMBROIDERY: With Cerise and Lilac alternating colors embroider in
duplicate st on every 10th st of 9th and 10th rows of pattern as
illustrated. See page 33 for duplicate st.

FINISHING: Steam and block. Attach to pillow.

BRAID: Cut three yard lengths of Antique. Using 3 strands crochet a ch.
Sew right side of ch to edge of pillow.

TASSELS: Make 2 each of Cerise and Lilac. Wind yarn 25 times over a 5
inch cardboard, tie one end. Slip off cardboard, tie about 1 inch below
first tying. Cut other end and trim. Attach one tassel to each corner.




                              Rose Topper


                        _illustrated on page 11_

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each White and Cerise
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 7 s c = 2 inches

With Cerise ch 2, 8 s c in 1st st of ch, do not join or turn this or
following rounds. Place a marker at beg of each round. 2nd ROUND: 2 s c
in each s c. 3rd ROUND: S c in next s c, 2 s c in next s c, repeat from
beg all around (24 s c). NEXT 4 ROUNDS: Inc 8 sts evenly spaced in each
round, do not place inc directly over inc of previous round and end last
round with a sl st (56 sts in last round). 8th ROUND: Working in back
loop of sts only 1 s c in each st, join in 1st s c. 9th ROUND: Ch 3,
work in star st as follows: keeping all loops on hook pull up a loop in
2nd and 3rd st from hook, in joining, and in back loop of each of next 2
s c (6 loops), y o and pull through all loops at one time, ch 1 (this ch
1 is termed the eye of star st), * keeping all loops on hook pull up a
loop in eye of star st just made, in side of same star st, in base of
same star st, and in back loop of each of next 2 s c (6 loops), y o and
pull through all loops at one time, ch 1, repeat from * all around (28
star sts), join in 1st star st. 10th ROUND: S c in same space, * s c in
eye of star st, s c in back loop of one side of next star st, repeat
from * all around ending to correspond (56 s c), drop Cerise (when
changing colors always complete last half of st with new color), with
White join in st s c. 11th ROUND: Working in back loop of sts only 1 s c
in each st, drop White, with Cerise join in 1st s c. Repeat 9th, 10th
and 11th rounds twice. NEXT ROUND: With Cerise repeat 11th round, join,
cut yarn.

RUFFLE: With White working through both loops of sts work 1 s c in
joining, * 2 s c in next s c, s c in next s c, repeat from * all around
ending to correspond, do not join this or following rounds. NEXT 2
ROUNDS: 1 s c in each s c, join last round, cut yarn. NEXT ROUND: With
Cerise working in back loop of sts only work a sl st in each st, cut
yarn.




                       Make a Gift of a Xmas Bell


    [Illustration: {BELL}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein Red and
  FRUIT OF THE LOOM RICK RACK
    1 pkg. Gold and
  “STAR” MERCERIZED SEWING THREAD
    1 spool
  6 Leaves
  12 Plastic Stars
  12 Small Sequins
  Beads
  Glue
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches

With Red ch 2, 8 s c in 1st st of ch, do not join or turn this or
following rounds. Place a marker at beg of each round. 2nd ROUND: 2 s c
in each s c. 3rd ROUND: 2 s c in next s c, 1 s c in next s c, repeat
from beg all around (24 s c). 4th ROUND: 1 s c in each s c. 5th ROUND: 1
s c in each of next 2 s c, 2 s c in next s c, repeat from beg all around
(32 s c). NEXT 3 ROUNDS: 1 s c in each s c. 9th ROUND: 2 s c in next s
c, 1 s c in each of next 3 s c, repeat from beg all around (40 s c).
NEXT 8 ROUNDS: 1 s c in each s c. NEXT ROUND: S c in next s c, 2 s c in
next s c, repeat from beg all around (60 s c). NEXT 2 ROUNDS: 1 s c in
each s c. NEXT ROUND: 1 s c in each of next 4 s c, 2 s c in next s c,
repeat from beg all around. NEXT ROUND: 1 s c in each s c to within last
3 s c, sl st in each of next 3 s c to even round. NEXT ROUND: Sl st in
each st, cut yarn.

TRIM: Cut 2 strips of rick rack each 20 inches long. Twist tog to form
solid band. Sew or glue to bell as illustrated. Cut 3 strips of rick
rack 4½ inches long and 3 strips 2½ inches long. Glue in position at top
of bell as illustrated. Finish each end with a star, sequin and bead.
Sew leaves to top of bell with a bead. Glue groups of 3 beads to band at
1 inch intervals. Cut a 12 inch length of rug yarn. Fold in half. With
crochet hook or large needle draw ends down through top of bell. Knot on
wrong side.




                         Dish Cloth Place Mats


    [Illustration: {PLACE MATS}]


                                 Mat #1

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each Cerise, Chartreuse, Lilac and National Blue will
          make 2 place mats
  2 Dish Cloths
  Large Blunt Needle

Cut strands of yarn about 25 inches long. Work in same manner as Woven
Tote bag on page 23 but start weaving lengthwise of dish cloth at lower
edge.

    [Illustration: DETAIL FOR DISH CLOTH MAT #1]


                                 Mat #2

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    1—70 yd. skein each Bongo, Lilac, Yellow and Chartreuse will make 2
          place mats
  2 Dish Cloths
  Large Blunt Needle

Cut strands of yarn about 28 inches long. Work in same manner as Ripple
Tote bag on page 23 but start weaving lengthwise of dish cloth at lower
edge and skip 3 meshes instead of 4 meshes throughout.

    [Illustration: DETAIL FOR DISH CLOTH MAT #2]




                           Give her the Boot


                            CROCHETED BOOTS

  Sizes: Small to Medium; Medium to Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    3 (3) 70 yd. skeins Red
    2 (3) 70 yd. skeins White
  Aluminum Crochet Hook Size H OR ANY SIZE HOOK WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 7 sts = 2 inches
  Directions are given for small to medium size. Changes for medium to
          large size are given in parentheses.
  NOTE: All s c will be worked in back loop of sts throughout.

INSTEP: With Red ch 27 (each size) 1 s c in 2nd st from hook and in each
remaining st of ch, ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd ROW: 1 s c in each of the
1st 11 sts, dec in next 2 sts (to dec: keeping loops on hook pull up a
loop in each of next 2 sts, y o and work off all loops at one time),
place a marker, dec in next 2 sts, 1 s c in each remaining st. 3rd ROW:
1 s c in each st to within 2 sts of marker, dec in next 2 sts, dec in
next 2 sts, 1 s c in each remaining st. Repeat last row until 4 sts
remain. NEXT ROW: Dec in 1st 2 sts, dec in next 2 sts. NEXT ROW: Dec in
2 sts, cut yarn.

TOP SECTION: 1st HALF: Working on side of instep attach Red in 1st row,
work 16 s c ending at point, ch 21, s c in 2nd st from hook and in each
remaining st of ch, 1 s c in each s c. NEXT ROW: Work 1 s c in each s c,
drop Red, attach White. NEXT 11 (13) ROWS: 1 s c in each s c alternating
2 rows White and 2 rows Red. NEXT ROW: Skip 1 s c, sl st in next s c, 1
s c in each remaining s c. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in each s c, sl st in sl st.
NEXT ROW: Skip sl st, sl st in next st, 1 s c in each remaining s c, cut
yarn. 2nd HALF: With Red starting at point work 16 s c on opposite side
of instep. NEXT ROW: 1 s c in each s c and in each free loop of starting
ch of 1st half (36 s c). Then work same as 1st half reversing shaping,
cut yarn.

SOLE: With Red ch 2, 3 s c in 1st st of ch, ch 1 to turn all rows. 2nd
ROW: Working in both loops of sts throughout 2 s c in 1st s c, s c in
next s c, 2 s c in next s c. 3rd ROW: 1 s c in each s c. 4th ROW:
Working in s c inc 1 st at beg and end of row. Repeat last 2 rows until
there are 11 (13) sts. NEXT ROW: Work even. NEXT ROW: Dec 1 st at beg
and end of row. Repeat last 2 rows until 3 sts remain. NEXT ROW: Dec in
the 3 sts, cut yarn.

FINISHING: Fold the top section in half. Starting at top of boot sew
back seam, across 11 (13) rows of lower edge matching stripes. Insert
sole in opening and sl st instep and sole tog.

POMPONS: Make 2 Red and 2 White. Wind yarn 45 times over a 2½ inch
cardboard. Slip off cardboard, tie in center, cut both ends. Trim into
shape.

CORD. Make 2. With White work a ch 22 inches long. Lace through top of
each boot and trim with pompons.

    [Illustration: {BOOT}]

    [Illustration: _American Thread Co._
    Aunt Lydia’s
    FAST COLOR • 70 YARDS
    HEAVY RUG YARN]




                              Fuzzy Wuzzy


    [Illustration: {FUZZY WUZZY}]


                              CATERPILLAR

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    6—70 yd. skeins Chartreuse
    2—70 yd. skeins Black
  FRUIT OF THE LOOM RICK RACK
    1 pkg. Black
    1 pkg. Gold

BODY: Open skein, cut 1 end. Take 4 lengths cut in half to be used for
tying. Cut skein into 9 equal sections (approximately 5 inches). * Place
four 5 inch sections on top of each other. Double 1 tying length in half
and tie the 4 sections in center, turn and tie again leaving ends to tie
next group. Open and cut Black in same manner leaving tying strands.
Take 1½ sections and tie in center same as 1st section. With tying
strands of each section, tie together. Repeat from * alternating colors
until all sections are used, always tying new sections to already
attached sections and ending with 2 groups of Chartreuse for Head
Section. Trim head slightly to shape.

FACE: Tie 2 strands of Black in place knotting on each end. Form eyes
with Black rickrack having 6 points on outside and drawing center points
tog. Cut 2 points Gold, glue in place to center of each eye. Glue eyes
in place.




                   Doll Pajama Cover or Toaster Cover


    [Illustration: {DOLL COVER}]

  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  “AUNT LYDIA’S” HEAVY RUG YARN
    5—70 yd. skeins Natural
    1—70 yd. skein Bongo
  Kapok or Cotton for filling
  Scraps of Red, Black, Navy Blue and White Felt
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 10½ OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT
          IN STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 3 sts = 1 inch

SKIRT: With Natural cast on 25 sts and work in garter st (K each row)
for 17 inches. Bind off.

HEAD: Pick up and K 35 sts on one side of work for head picking up 1 st
every other ridge. Work even in garter st for 5 inches. NEXT ROW: K
across row dec 5 sts evenly spaced. NEXT ROW: K across row. Repeat last
2 rows once but do not work dec directly over previous dec. NEXT ROW: K
2 tog across row, cut yarn leaving a length. Sew back seam. Fill head
with Kapok or Cotton. Thread yarn into a blunt needle and draw sts tog
at top, fasten securely.

ARMS: With Natural cast on 10 sts and work in garter st for 5½ inches.
Bind off. Draw sts tog at bottom, sew seam, fill with Kapok or Cotton.
Draw sts tog at top and sew in position. Thread yarn into a blunt needle
and draw sts tog slightly 1½ inches from bottom to form hands, fasten
securely. Outline fingers with Black.

LEGS: With Natural cast on 25 sts, K 5 rows. NEXT 2 ROWS: Bind off 5 sts
at beg of each row. Work even on remaining sts for 5½ inches, bind off.
Fold work in half lengthwise, sew seam and fill with Kapok or Cotton,
sew in position at bottom of skirt.

HAIR: Wind Bongo over a ruler, tack loops at top. Slip off ruler and sew
to head. Continue in this manner until head is all covered. Glue in
position as illustrated.

FACE: Cut eyelashes from Black felt same as Cat eyelashes on page 35.
Cut mouth from Red felt about ⅛ inch larger than Doll mouth on page 34.
Cut 2 White 1½ inch ovals for eyes. Cut two ½ inch circles of Navy felt
and two ¼ inch circles Black felt for center of eyes. Cut 2 dots Red
felt for nose. Glue in position as illustrated.




                     Knitted Garter Stitch Slipper


    [Illustration: {SLIPPER}]

  Sizes: Small to Medium; Medium to Large
  Materials Required:
  AMERICAN THREAD
  AUNT LYDIA’S HEAVY RUG YARN
    2—70 yd. skeins Pink
  1 Pr. Knitting Needles No. 8 OR ANY SIZE NEEDLES WHICH WILL RESULT IN
          STITCH GAUGE BELOW
  GAUGE: 4 sts = 1 inch

Directions are given for small to medium size. Changes for medium to
large size are given in parentheses.

Cast on 3 sts. 1st ROW: K across row. 2nd ROW: K 1, P 1 (center st), K
1. 3rd ROW: Inc in 1st st, K 1 (center st), inc in last st. 4th ROW: K
2, P 1, K 2. 5th ROW: K across row inc 1 st before and after center st.
6th ROW: K 3, P 1, K 3. Repeat last 2 rows always inc 1 st before and
after center st on 1st row, and always P center st on 2nd row until
there are 33 (37) sts on needle. NEXT ROW: K across 10 (12) sts, bind
off 13 sts at instep, K remaining sts. NEXT ROW: K across 6 (8) sts, K 2
tog, y o (beading), K remaining sts (work one side at a time, leave
remaining sts on needle to be worked later). NEXT ROW: K across row
counting y o as a st. NEXT 4 ROWS: K each row. Repeat last 6 rows 5 (6)
times, bind off. Attach yarn at other side of instep, K 2, y o, K 2 tog,
K 6 (8) sts across. Then complete side same as 1st side.

SOLE: Cast on 4 sts. Starting from heel work in garter st (K each row),
inc 1 st at beg and end of every other row until there are 8 (10) sts on
needle. NEXT 22 (28) ROWS: Work even. NEXT ROW: Inc 1 st at beg and end
of row. NEXT 18 (22) ROWS: Work even. Then dec 1 st at beg and end of
every other row until 4 sts remain on needle, bind off.

FINISHING: Weave heel section tog, insert sole in opening and sew in
position.

CORD: Cut yarn 60 inches long, fold in half, twist tightly, let twist
itself, knot at each end. Lace through beading.


                            DUPLICATE STITCH

This is the stitch used most often for embroidering a desired motif on a
knitted article. It is worked by: * bringing needle through center of
stitch from the wrong side to right side of work—see ill. A. Following
the outline of the knit stitch above, draw the yarn across the back of
the two strands of this stitch—see ill. A and B—return needle to the
center of the same stitch—see ill. B—and draw yarn through. Repeat from
* starting next stitch by bringing needle through center of stitch to be
duplicated—see ill. C.

    [Illustration: ILL. A]

    [Illustration: ILL. B]

    [Illustration: ILL. C]

               KNITTING ABBREVIATIONS

  Knit                            K
  Purl                            P
  Stitch                          St
  Yarn Over                       YO
  Decrease                        Dec.
  Increase                        Inc.
  Together                        Tog.
  Round                           Rnd.
  Pass slip st over               P.s.s.o.
  Horizontal Yarn                 Yarn between sts

                CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

  Chain                           Ch
  Single Crochet                  S c
  Short Double Crochet            S d c
  Double Crochet                  D c
  Treble Crochet                  Tr c
  Double Treble Crochet           D tr c
  Treble Treble Crochet           Tr tr c
  Slip Stitch                     Sl st
  Stitch                          St
  Stitches                        Sts
  Between                         Bet

*(Asterisk) This symbol indicates that the instructions immediately
      following are to be repeated the given number of times plus the
      original.

**Are used in the same way.

    [Illustration: _American Thread Co._
    Aunt Lydia’s
    FAST COLOR • 70 YARDS
    HEAVY RUG YARN]

    [Illustration: DIAGRAMS FOR MINI DOLL PAGE 18]

  EYEBROW—CUT 2
  SHOE—CUT 4
  EYE—CUT 2
  HAND—CUT 4
  INSTEP—CUT 2 ALONG DOTTED LINE
  MOUTH—CUT 1
  NOSE—CUT 2

    [Illustration: DIAGRAMS FOR DOLL TOASTER COVER PAGE 31]

  EAR—CUT 2
  EYES—CUT 2
    CURVE TO SHAPE
    SLASH LINES
  WHISKERS—CUT 2
    SLASH LINES
  NOSE—CUT 2
  TONGUE—CUT 1
  MOUTH—CUT 1
    SLASH LINE

    [Illustration: Back cover]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text; all of page 18 was relocated.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 207: Make it with Aunt
Lydia's Heavy Rug Yarn, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 207: MAKE IT ***

***** This file should be named 62487-0.txt or 62487-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/4/8/62487/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
